---
title: Survey, Audience and Rhetoric Analysis
---
## Proposition: The US Government should tax automation.

### Survey & Audience analysis

The pace of automation is accelerating and it’s already costing people their
jobs. Cashiers have been replaced by self-checkout counters, factory workers
with robotic arms. In the next decade or so, self-driving cars are poised to
replace the 4m workers in the US, roughly 3 percent of the labour force. We must
confront the problem of how we deal with the unemployment created by automation.
To do this, Bill Gates has proposed that the US government taxing the use of
automation in companies, to help pay for retraining employees . (Morris, D.,
2017)

In this vein, our group's proposal is that "Should the US Government Tax
automation". I will take a negative stance, arguing against the proposal.

The survey indicates that the audience supports the proposal. The audience,
university students, are worried about the job market, and fear that automation
is making it difficult for them to get a job. The audience is hostile to my
stance so it will be a slightly uphill task convincing them against it. Even so
I think they'd be more receptive once I present alternate solutions that address
their concerns.

Being university students, the audience values providing jobs much more than
just an efficient economy (71%). They are also worried that getting job after
graduation will be more difficult because of automation. This makes it important
that I provide insight into alternates solutions to the issue, instead of
concentrating on the problems with the robot tax.

The audience also seems skeptical about artificial intelligence and automation
-- 42% believe that self-driving truck will not be as efficient as the current
trucks, while 50% of the audience wouldn't feel safe driving in or even along
side a self-driving car. This was somewhat surprising to me we've lived through
a massive increase in the amount of AI we've been exposed to in the last decade
and a half, beginning with search engines like Google, and now self-driving cars
and even artificial intelligences beating humans at games like Chess and Go,
something computer scientists had only recently thought were several decades
away.

These survey results have forced me to dispense with the idea that most of the
audience thinks is a manner similar to mine. So because of having to throw away
some of my pre-conceived notions, I've gone in directions that I wouldn't have
normally gone in. The survey has proved extremely useful to me!

### Rhetorical analysis

Ever since the industrial revolution, automation has been replacing jobs with
machines. Skilled workers and Artisans such as weavers were replaced by
factories. In recent years the pace of automation has been accelerating and
broadening in scope. Cashiers have been replaced by self-checkout counters,
factory workers with robotic arms. 4M drivers in the US are predicted to be
replaced by self-driving cars in the next decade. Even doctors are being
replaced by computers that can perform diagnosis and even surgery. People are
worried about their jobs, and rightly so.

Microsoft's founder Bill gates proposes that we tax automation to slow down the
pace of it's adoption and to fund retraining of workers. (Morris, D., 2017) In
that vein, our group has chosen to debate whether the US government should tax
automation. The idea behind this tax is to reduce the incentive for companies to
utilize automation. Use of automation will be taxed at a similar level to the
income tax that the employees it would replaces would pay. This money would then
be used to retrain employees in other skills that have not yet been replaced by
machines and automation. On the surface this seems like a good plan, but it does
not take some important big-picture issues into account. I will explain these
later in the analysis. My plan is to appeal to logos (logic) and pathos (reason)
to make my argument.

In order to get the attention of the audience, I will talk about how this tax
parallels the protests of the Luddites in the 19th century. The Luddites are
well known for protesting against the industrialization of the textile industry
in an attempt to keep protect their jobs. They've now become the epitome of
people who are attempting to hold back technology. While this is not strictly
true (some Luddites were actually highly skilled machine operators in the
textile industry; they had been protesting the working conditions in the
factories, and not the machines themselves), the legend of their futile protests
and how the industrialization steam-rolled them are so ubiquitously believed
that it will be a useful tool in my speech. This tax is a similar attempt to
slow down the inevitable technological change that comes with automation.

I will then talk about the problems that introducing this tax will cause. It
will stifle innovation, and make the US economy less competitive relative to
other economies that don't have such regulations. It may even cause US companies
to move factories abroad to sidestep the tax and make themselves more
competitive. This could make the tax back fire and reduce unemployment further.
We've already seen this happen with jobs being outsources to countries with
cheaper labour such as Mexico and India. Interestingly as the income from these
outsourcing jobs raised wages in these countries, the jobs moved to even cheaper
markets. Another issue with this idea is that it's difficult to define what
automation is. Bloomberg's Noah Smith writes "The problem with Gates’ basic
proposal is that it’s very hard to tell the difference between new technology
that complements humans and new technology that replaces them. This is
especially true over the long term. Power looms replaced human weavers back in
the Industrial Revolution, but people eventually became more productive, by
learning to operate those looms. If taxes had slowed the development of power
looms, the eventual improvements would have come later." (Smith, N., 2017) Where
do we draw the line between automation that should be taxed and automation that
shouldn't?

Besides meeting the "need" component of Monroe's Motivated Sequence, I
will also use it to meet the "visualization" component, putting the audience in
the shoes of the companies that have to deal with this regulation. When looked
at from that point of view, the tax seems almost foolish to me.

Third, I will acknowledge that there is a real and worrying that needs to be
dealt with. Bill Gates says, "business can’t [adequately handle such problems].
If you want to do [something about] inequity, a lot of the excess labor is going
to need to go help the people who have lower incomes,” he said. “And so it means
that you can amp up social services for old people and handicapped people and
you can take the education sector and put more labor in there. Yes, some of it
will go to, ‘Hey, we’ll be richer and people will buy more things.’ But the
inequity-solving part, absolutely government’s got a big role to play there."
(Ernst, D. 2017).

I will explain alternate solutions such as wage subsidies (Pethokoukis, J.,
2015) and universal basic income (Sodha, S., 2017.), essentially a stipend given
to all citizens in order to reduce inequity and allow them to train themselves
in new skills. A wage subsidy is a type of welfare -- adding dollars-per-hour to
the worker’s wage out of tax payer money. According to James Pethokoukis of
American Enterprise Institute, "wage supports thus offer a unique opportunity to
break America’s negative cycle of poverty, family and community breakdown".
Another idea is to redistribute the profits of automation more evenly. This
could be implemented as "sovereign-wealth fund", where the government makes
investments in stocks and real-estate and distributes the profits to the public.
According to Sodha of the Guardian, in 2016/17 Finland carried out an experiment
of a similar concept -- Universal Basic Income. The government would pay
unemployed people between the age of 25 and 58 a "basic income" of 560 Euros
every month. This replaced unemployment benefit, but would be payed regardless
of whether the person is employed. (Sodha, S., 2017) This is an important part
of my essay. I will explain that besides the obvious empathic motivations for
keeping most of the population employed, businesses also have selfish reasons to
make sure that humans are employed -- robots do not spend money and neither do
unemployed humans.It's in the best interest of businesses themselves to make
sure that humans are employed and have money to spend and promote growth in the
market. It is intended to assuage the fears of the audience that the
unemployment cause by automation is inevitable, and so meet the "satisfaction"
component of Monroe's Motivated Sequence.

During the transition between the "need" component and the "satisfaction"
component, I will spend some time explaining why automation is inevitable.
I will use sources such as the documentary "Humans need not apply", and the
fears that industry and science leaders like Stephen Hawking, Elon Musk and
Bill Gates are worried about the changes that artificial intelligence will cause
and how it will be a paradigm shift of greater magnitude that the industrial
revolution. This section, too, is important since the audience doesn't seem
convinced that automation can do a lot of tasks (large portions aren't
comfortable with self driving cars, feel that self-driving truck won't be as
inefficient).

The fact of the matter is that automation is inevitable. History has shown that
when large economic forces have a stake, they tend to win. Implementing this tax
would be a denial of this fact, and would in effect be shooting ourselves in the
foot. We should instead take advantage of these same economic forces to have the
best interest of the populace and that of businesses to coincide. In this way we
could deal offset the mal-effects of automation, while still keeping our
industry competitive. Despite the hostile audience I'm confident that my
arguments will be able to convince them that it's in their best interests to
support alternatives to this tax.
